Life lessons adopted from reinforcement learning. (Draft)

Life is a series a moments for exploration and exploitation. 

It is often the case that when attempting to be productive we run toward techniques that give us the most bang for the buck at the moment.

This is a perfectly good strategy when your roadmap is clear, and most of the time you won't suffer by following it.

However, when we are using these techniques we are often exploiting a known path. 

In an effort to be "most productive" we take the known good, and opt to shy away from the unknown. 

Its not always the case that exploitation will lead to a dead end. However, our reward signals must be tuned correctly so we don't chase the wrong thing.

There are times when feelings change, and goals change, and exploitation can only get you so far. However exploration can build up a "general understanding" of one's self that allows for robustness in the face of the unknown. 


Someone once gave me some advice (if anyone knows the quote please help me find it!)

Make a list of the things you want to accomplish. Then take the top 5. Aside from the #1, these other 4 are ones you should avoid at all costs.

They will distract you the most and detract from progress on #1. 

I took this aadvice to heart, being a serial experimenter i have trouble sticking to one thing.

However, as with all things I finally learned that I could tailor it to my own needs.

Now I set aside limited time for each thing, and align myself to accomplish #1 by making it part of my life.

I pursued a job in AI/ML because that is my #1. I want to be on the front lines of AI (or middle-front, at least!)

But my advice is that we take time for exploration. I set aside an hour a week for my #2-#5.

That we accept that things take time, and use that time to try new things without thinking about where they will get us.

In my experience when I have explored, I have been able to make large bursts of progress by tying unrelated things together. 

However, its always a challenge to be patient and allow myself to say "I don't know where this will lead." even in the face of immediate pressures.

